Ingress docs (#24)
lightbend/cloudflow-docs: docs-source/docs/modules/administration/ingress-creation.adoc

> = Ingress creation

Reviewer: I would suggest decoupling the title from the K8s concept of an ingress since users might not even know what that means yet. I suggest the title of this bit should be something like "Providing External Access to Cloudflow services" or something similar. 

I also suggest you actually explain/introduce the concept of an ingress, even if only in one sentence, like "In K8s you can allow external (HTTP) network traffic to reach your services by creating _Ingresses_ and adding an _Ingress Controller_ to your cluster".

Author: Added this opening to the doc and changed the title.

> = Providing External Access to Cloudflow services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Providing External Access to Cloudflow Services
```

Reviewer: you might want to change the file name as well, since that is reflected in the URL of the docs

:toc:
:toc-title: ON THIS PAGE
:toclevels: 2

In K8s you can allow external (HTTP) network traffic to reach your services by creating Ingresses and adding an Ingress Controller to your cluster.

> This section shows how to install a Ingress controller and creating an Ingress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows how to install an Ingress controller and creating an Ingress.
```

> NOTE: An ingress opens up a permanent, unauthenticated route by default, Kubernetes does not provide any authentication on ingresses. Authentication has to be implemented by the exposed application or the ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: An _Ingress_ opens up a permanent, unauthenticated route by default, Kubernetes does not provide any authentication on ingresses. Authentication has to be implemented by the exposed application or by the ingress controller.
```

Since Ingress is not a general term but the name for a specific bit of K8s that we are explaining here, I suggest we always capitalize it and put it into italics, e.g. _Ingress_

> NOTE: An _Ingress_ opens up a permanent, unauthenticated route by default, Kubernetes does not provide any authentication on ingresses. Authentication has to be implemented by the exposed application or by the ingress controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: An _Ingress_ opens up a permanent, unauthenticated route by default. Kubernetes does not provide any authentication on ingresses. Authentication has to be implemented by the exposed service or by the ingress controller.
```

An https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/[ingress] is a Kubernetes resource that defines a set of routing rules and is serviced by an ingress controller. 

There is a wide selection of ingress controllers available. The following link contains a list of the most common ones.

https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/[Ingress Controllers] 

Before creating an ingress resource, there must be an enabled ingress controller in the cluster. 

=== Deploying an ingress controller

> The Kubernetes project currently provides two ingress controllers, `Nginx-ingress` and `gce`. In this example, we will use the `Nginx-ingress` ingress controller since it is compatible with all major cloud vendors (GCP, AWS, and Azure). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes project directly supports and maintains two ingress controllers, `Nginx-ingress` and `gce`. In this example, we will use the `Nginx-ingress` ingress controller since it is compatible with all major cloud vendors (GCP, AWS, and Azure). 
```

The following link shows how to deploy the `Nginx-ingress` ingress controller.

https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/

=== Creating the ingress resource
The ingress resource defines routes between the outside of the cluster to an application running in the cluster.

In the example below, we create an ingress that exposes the `sensor-data-scala-http-ingress-service` service in the namespace `sensor-data-scala`. 

> NOTE: When the Cloudflow operator deploys an application that have one or more streamlets with a server attribute, the operator will create a Kubernetes service resource for each of these streamlet. The service resource is what we will use below to create a route using an ingress from the outside to the streamlet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: When the Cloudflow operator deploys an application that has one or more streamlets with a server attribute, the operator will create a Kubernetes Service resource for each of these streamlet. The Service resource is what we will use below to create a route using an ingress from the outside to the streamlet.
```

Author: Can you explain this?

The annotation `kubernetes.io/ingress.class` in the ingress resource below is the selector used by the ingress controller. If you installed another ingress controller, review its documentation to learn how it selects ingress resources.

> When applying the following resource to the cluster, the ingress controller creates a route to the service from the outside. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying the following resource to the cluster, the ingress controller will create the corresponding route from the outside network to the service. 
```

Reviewer: Probably good to add a brief note that the service we are exposing in the example below is listening on port 3003.

[source,bash]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f - 
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sensor-data-http-ingress
  namespace: sensor-data-scala
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
spec:
    rules:
    - http:
        paths:
        - path: /sensor-data
          backend:
            servicePort: 3003
            serviceName: sensor-data-scala-http-ingress-service
EOF
----

View the ingress resource to check the progress of the ingress controller assigning an address to the resource. This may take a few minutes.

[source,bash]
----
> kubectl get ingress -n sensor-data-scala
NAME                       HOSTS   ADDRESS           PORTS     AGE

> sensor-data-http-ingress   *       192.168.1.2       80        59s

Reviewer: Is this a Minikube example? The address would normally be an externally visible address instead of the above internal network address.

Author: @agemooij Its an example, I put in a fictitious IP number.

Reviewer: Then I suggest we use a fictitious public IP number to avoid confusing idiots such as myself, who see the internal address and think "huh?" 😉

Author: Alright, I'll do that so nobody gets confused ;)

----

> The ingress now has an address, and data can be sent to the ingress on the address `192.168.1.2/sensor-data`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ingress now has an address and data can be sent to the ingress on the address `192.168.1.2/sensor-data`
```
